packages/template-cli/README.md, before:

---
id: cli
title: CLI (Command Line Interface)
sidebar_label: CLI
---

## Template CLI
Builds a Node.js with React Server Side Rendered Webapp Template, with accompanying infrastruce code. All from your CLI.

## Dependencies

We are using npx to execute and create the [template-cli](./packages/template-cli) [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx).

We are supporting and running [node@12](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/). Please ensure that your local environment has the correct version
[installed](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

We are leveraging [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) for dependency management - follow the
installation instructions for your OS [here](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm).

## Create app from template

Creates an amido-stacks template in your local directory much like express-generate with an addition of `build/, deploy/, docs/, src/` folders as per the Amido-Stacks standards.

1. Install dependencies required to generate the templated app:
```bash
cd ${YOUR_GIT_STACKS_WEB_APP_PATH}/stacks-webapp-template/packages/template-cli
npm install
npm run build
```

2. Change to a directory for testing - e.g. $HOME and run
```bash
cd ${SELECTED_DIR}
npx ${YOUR_GIT_STACKS_WEB_APP_PATH}/stacks-webapp-template/packages/template-cli
```

3. Follow the CLI prompts to create a templated app with user defined configuration:
- Project Name: _default_: current directory (will create a directory with this name)
- Project Type: _default_: SSR (server side rendering)
- Platform: _default_: AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service)
- CI/CD Tooling: _default_: AzureDevOps

4. Navigate to the created project directory to install template dependencies:
e.g. ${SELECTED_DIR}/$PROJECT_NAME
```bash
cd ${SELECTED_DIR}/$PROJECT_NAME/src/ssr
npm install
```

5. Build and run the app:
```bash
npm run build
npm run start
```
Open Browser and hit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

6. To test the deploy folder has been correctly provisioned prior to checking you need to at this point in time copy over a sample backend-config and terraform vars. Currently vars.tf and provider configuration is not automatically updated. 
Future iterations will include this.

The safest way to run and maintain this going forward is to rely on environment variables for credentials as that is the way the pipeline will trigger the executions of terraform. 

Sample export script with correct environment vars:

```bash
export ARM_CLIENT_ID= \
ARM_CLIENT_SECRET= \
ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID= \
ARM_TENANT_ID=
```

```
cd ${YOUR_GIT_STACKS_WEB_APP_PATH}/deploy/azure/terraform
terraform init -backend-config=./backend.local.tfvars
terraform plan
```

NB: as the module currently points to a private github repo you will need to supply credentials on the command line as part of the plan/apply

## Testing

```bash
npm run test
```

We are using [Jest.js](https://jestjs.io/) for testing including code coverage.

Commit message:

task: lerna publishing (#83)
* docs: lerna publishing

* docs: updates for new npm

* chore: pipeline revert

* chore: temp to allow publishing from branchs

* chore: update the npmrc references

* docs: why not from-package

* fix: single quotes

* chore: prob will be ignored

* fix: align with package publishing

* docs: publishing

* chore: version bump

* chore: lerna config

* docs: bump for lerna

* chore: packages

* chore(release): publish

 - @amidostacks/eslint-config@0.20.1
 - @amidostacks/scaffolding-cli@1.12.3

* chore: add in versioning

* fix: remove npmrc copy from dockerfile

* chore: update the publish process to be a manual version bump

* chore(release): publish

 - @amidostacks/scaffolding-cli@1.12.4

* docs: bump for docs

* chore: manual versioning

* docs: publishing

* chore: update the package json

packages/template-cli/README.md, after:

---
id: cli
title: CLI (Command Line Interface)
sidebar_label: CLI
---

Please read through the [template_cli](../../docs/cli-process.md) for more information.

## Template CLI

Builds a Node.js with React Server Side Rendered Webapp Template, with accompanying infrastruce code. All from your CLI.

## Dependencies

We are using npx to execute and create the [template-cli](./packages/template-cli) [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx).

We are supporting and running [node@12](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/). Please ensure that your local environment has the correct version
[installed](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

We are leveraging [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) for dependency management - follow the
installation instructions for your OS [here](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm).

## Create app from template

Creates an amidostacks template in your local directory much like express-generate with an addition of `build/, deploy/, docs/, src/` folders as per the Amido Stacks standards.

1. Install dependencies required to generate the templated app:
```bash
cd ${YOUR_GIT_STACKS_WEB_APP_PATH}/stacks-webapp-template/packages/template-cli
npm install
npm run build
```

2. Change to a directory for testing - e.g. $HOME and run
```bash
cd ${SELECTED_DIR}
npx ${YOUR_GIT_STACKS_WEB_APP_PATH}/stacks-webapp-template/packages/template-cli
```

3. Follow the CLI prompts to create a templated app with user defined configuration:
- Project Name: _default_: current directory (will create a directory with this name)
- Project Type: _default_: SSR (server side rendering)
- Platform: _default_: AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service)
- CI/CD Tooling: _default_: AzureDevOps

4. Navigate to the created project directory to install template dependencies:
e.g. ${SELECTED_DIR}/$PROJECT_NAME
```bash
cd ${SELECTED_DIR}/$PROJECT_NAME/src/ssr
npm install
```

5. Build and run the app:
```bash
npm run build
npm run start
```
Open Browser and hit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

6. To test the deploy folder has been correctly provisioned prior to checking you need to at this point in time copy over a sample backend-config and terraform vars. Currently vars.tf and provider configuration is not automatically updated. 
Future iterations will include this.

The safest way to run and maintain this going forward is to rely on environment variables for credentials as that is the way the pipeline will trigger the executions of terraform. 

Sample export script with correct environment vars:

```bash
export ARM_CLIENT_ID= \
ARM_CLIENT_SECRET= \
ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID= \
ARM_TENANT_ID=
```

```
cd ${YOUR_GIT_STACKS_WEB_APP_PATH}/deploy/azure/terraform
terraform init -backend-config=./backend.local.tfvars
terraform plan
```

NB: as the module currently points to a private github repo you will need to supply credentials on the command line as part of the plan/apply

## Testing

```bash
npm run test
```

We are using [Jest.js](https://jestjs.io/) for testing including code coverage.
