packages/scaffolding-cli/templates/src/csr/README.md, before:

# Client Side Rendering Web Application

## Implementation details

The template is a Client Side Rendered (CSR) implementation using:

- [React.js](https://reactjs.org/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/)
- [Cypress](https://docs.cypress.io/)

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br /> Open
[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br /> You will also see any lint errors
in the console.

### `npm run test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br /> See the section
about
[running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests)
for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `out` folder.<br /> It correctly bundles
React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br /> Your app is
ready to be deployed!

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here:
https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here:
https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration

Commit message:

CSR eslint config (#137)
* chore: first commit

* chore: npm ejected files

* chore: lint changes

* docs: updated docs

* chore: added tsconfig

* chore: lint

* chore: cra ejected

* chore: added package lock

* chore: updated project name

* chore: updated the gitIgnore list

* chore: updated package-lock

* docs: removed analyse

* chore: added scripts and config files for CSR

* chore: lint

* chore: added at the right place ignore

* chore: added license to package.json

* feat: added stacks-eslint config

* fix: removed the lint ignore and prettier files from csr

* chore: lint changes

packages/scaffolding-cli/templates/src/csr/README.md, after:

# Client Side Rendering Web Application

CSR webapp is bootstrapped from
[Create-React-App](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/getting-started)

## Implementation details

The template is a Client Side Rendered (CSR) implementation using:

- [React.js](https://reactjs.org/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/)
- [Cypress](https://docs.cypress.io/)

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br /> Open
[http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br /> You will also see any lint errors
in the console.

### `npm run test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br /> See the section
about
[running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests)
for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `out` folder.<br /> It correctly bundles
React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br /> Your app is
ready to be deployed!

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here:
https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here:
https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration
