packages/webapp/README.md, before:

# Web Application

## To run locally

```bash
yarn dev
```

## Testing

#### Unit, Component and Snapshot Testing

We are using [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for running all unit, component,
integration and snapshot tests. Jest supports TypeScript via Babel. Because
TypeScript support in Babel is transpilation, to ensure that Jest will
type-check the tests as they are run we use
[ts-jest](https://github.com/kulshekhar/ts-jest).

We are using [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for running all unit, component,
integration and snapshot tests. Jest supports TypeScript via Babel. Because
TypeScript support in Babel is transpilation, to ensure that Jest will
type-check the tests as they are run we use
[ts-jest](https://github.com/kulshekhar/ts-jest).

To help that encourage good testing practices for React DOM testing, we are
leveraging a helper library [react-testing-library](https://jestjs.io/).

`yarn test`: To run all unit tests. This will also run any snapshot tests.
Snapshots are to be checked in and are found in
[**snapshots**](__tests__/__snapshots__).

> To run from root refer the [Readme](../../README.md)

## To build and run using Docker

In order to be able to build and run the webapp template, across environments
and as part of CI, we need to use [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

```bash
# build
docker build -t stacks-app .
# or, use multi-stage builds to build a smaller docker image
docker build -t stacks-app -f ./Dockerfile.multistage .
```

Run it:

```bash
docker run --rm -it -p 3000:3000 stacks-app
```

Commit message:

feat(sonarcloud): Use Sonarcloud with Jest coverage reporter export. Only using `docker run` at current. Needs to be put in docker file.

packages/webapp/README.md, after:

# Web Application

## To run locally

```bash
yarn dev
```

## Testing

#### Unit, Component and Snapshot Testing

We are using [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for running all unit, component,
integration and snapshot tests. Jest supports TypeScript via Babel. Because
TypeScript support in Babel is transpilation, to ensure that Jest will
type-check the tests as they are run we use
[ts-jest](https://github.com/kulshekhar/ts-jest).

We are using [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for running all unit, component,
integration and snapshot tests. Jest supports TypeScript via Babel. Because
TypeScript support in Babel is transpilation, to ensure that Jest will
type-check the tests as they are run we use
[ts-jest](https://github.com/kulshekhar/ts-jest).

To help that encourage good testing practices for React DOM testing, we are
leveraging a helper library [react-testing-library](https://jestjs.io/).

`yarn test`: To run all unit tests. This will also run any snapshot tests.
Snapshots are to be checked in and are found in
[**snapshots**](__tests__/__snapshots__).

> To run from root refer the [Readme](../../README.md)

#### Static Testing

There is support with [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/) for static analysis. We can run this with [SonarScanner Docker](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-scanner-cli-docker)

In order to run, the export the followings environment variables for the SonarCloud Project:

```bash
export SONAR_TOKEN=
export SONAR_PROJECT_NAME=
export SONAR_PROJECT_KEY=
export SONAR_ORGANIZATION=
```

To find this, please ensure that you sign up with GitHub to [Sonarcloud](https://sonarcloud.io).

First generate the code coverage results, then run the SonarCloud scanner and push up the results:

```bash
yarn test
docker run -e SONAR_HOST_URL=https://sonarcloud.io -e SONAR_TOKEN=$SONAR_TOKEN -e SONAR_PROJECT_KEY=$SONAR_PROJECT_KEY -e SONAR_PROJECT_KEY=$SONAR_PROJECT_KEY -e SONAR_ORGANIZATION=$SONAR_ORGANIZATION -it -v "$(pwd):/usr/src" sonarsource/sonar-scanner-cli
```

## To build and run using Docker

In order to be able to build and run the webapp template, across environments
and as part of CI, we need to use [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

```bash
# build
docker build -t stacks-app .
# or, use multi-stage builds to build a smaller docker image
docker build -t stacks-app -f ./Dockerfile.multistage .
```

Run it:

```bash
docker run --rm -it -p 3000:3000 stacks-app
```
