packages/template-cli/templates/docs/deployment.md, before:

# Deployment

The pipeline component (Azure DevOps) is fully prepped for this application and runs the following stages

Current set up albeit all configurable is rigged to work with Azure, AKS, and ACR. 

- Build 
  - unit test
  - pact broker tests
  - pacakge auditing
  - build for docker container 
    - typescript compile
    - [next](https://nextjs.org/) build 
    - Dockerfile can be customized - current set up uses Debian (Buster). Not `slim` purely for additional python dependencies used during the build process
  - vulnerability scan on the packaged container
  - deploy to registry (defaults to ACR)
- Deploy Dev 
  - deploy to an AKS Cluster
  - run integration tests
  - 
- Deploy Prod 
  - deploy to an AKS Cluster
  - run smoke tests

### Kustomize and Kubectl 
K8s cluster is updated with Kustomize and does deploy time replacements of various components such as: host_urls, environment variables, etc...

To gain a more in-depth understading please review the build folder layout.

### Variable declaration and extending

TFS ONLY: 
  - All variables should be declared at the global scope
    - all steps and jobs should be passed as parameters 
  - you can assign groups at a stage or job level

Commit message:

Feat: Update K8s core (#102)
* feat: extend existing lib aks lib

* fix: app gateway - interim change

* fix: appgateway vars and added RBAC

* fix: missing parameter in Tf K8s cluster

* fix: lb needs to be standard to support new AKS

* fix: interim appg

* chore: adding ssl support part1

* fix: path for sample doc

* feat: new set up

* fix: app tf update

* fix: set container at a job level

* fix: features added

* fix: renamed to nonprod as per documentation

* chore: wrestle with ssl

* fix: password

* fix: run ssr infra

* fix: wrong registry command

* fix: remove perms using MSI

* fix: removed gatekeeper from base cluster
added templating func to user provided output

* fix: output variable

* fix: testing output

* fix: run again

* fix: bash array

* fix: debug

* fix: bash array 4

* fix: more debugging in yaml

* fix: additional debug output

* fix: change the value in template to a bash variable

* fix: cross job dependency

* fix: removed incorrect yml syntax

* fix: dumping out all vars

* fix: bind all output variables

* fix: specificly bound outputs to job vars

* fix: testing templating function

* fix: disabled pod security policy

* fix: reverted to supplying full file path for out yml

* fix: try working templator

* fix: revert to full path for out yaml

* fix: clean up of inputs
automate ssl app gateway and AKS ingress

* fix: typo

* fix: added display name to templating function

* fix: updated refs and containers

* fix: addresssed comments and cleaned up docs

* chore: linter after someone hasn't run theirs

* fix: removed already removed file

* fix: update refs for templated tf libs

* chore: update cli

packages/template-cli/templates/docs/deployment.md, after:

# Deployment

The pipeline component (Azure DevOps) is fully prepped for this application and runs the following stages

Current set up albeit all configurable is rigged to work with Azure, AKS, and ACR. 

- Build 
  - unit test
  - pact broker tests
  - pacakge auditing
  - build for docker container 
    - typescript compile
    - [next](https://nextjs.org/) build 
    - Dockerfile can be customized - current set up uses Debian (Buster). Not `slim` purely for additional python dependencies used during the build process
  - vulnerability scan on the packaged container
  - deploy to registry (defaults to ACR)
- Deploy Dev 
  - deploy to an AKS Cluster
  - run integration tests
  - 
- Deploy Prod 
  - deploy to an AKS Cluster
  - run smoke tests

### Kustomize and Kubectl 
K8s cluster is updated with Kustomize and does deploy time replacements of various components such as: host_urls, environment variables, etc...

To gain a more in-depth understading please review the build folder layout.

#### kube dashboard

If you want to proxy to the kube dashboard you will need to run the below:

```bash
kubectl create clusterrolebinding kubernetes-dashboard -n kube-system --clusterrole=cluster-admin --serviceaccount=kube-system:kubernetes-dashboard
```


### Variable declaration and extending

TFS ONLY: 
  - All variables should be declared at the global scope
    - all steps and jobs should be passed as parameters 
  - you can assign groups at a stage or job level
