docs/deployment.md, before:

# Templated Pipelines

Whilst there is a full CI/CD process for contributed changes to ensure exisiting functionality doesn't break if you want to ensure your PR passes, please follow the steps in the [cli](./cli.md) docs to create a templated out app with and *-pipeline.yml and point to your own CI/CD tooling.

All changes need to be made inside the `packages/template-cli/templates/build/*`. 

TFS ONLY:
  - The generated pipeline yaml is only comprised of steps and jobs templated out from other repo 

### Basic Guide 



Adding more steps 


### Build container definitions
All build containers used by the pipelines are stored and managed from `libs/images/*`, shbould you need to change or create an additional one please follow the existing structure and create a folder for your specific use case. 

These are meant to be used for public consumption and should not include any secrets or keys left in the container.

DO NOT use `COPY` or `ADD` commands 

e.g. create a folder called `pip-cypress` and within it include a Dockerfile and a README.

Commit message:

task: Publishing packages (#45)
* chore: update deps

* feat: add publishing  packagess to the pipeline

* fix: yml indent

* fix: call the right script

* fix: from git

* feat: branch at the sha and then pub

* chore: git checkout

* Publish

 - @amido-stacks/eslint-config@0.2.0
 - amido-scaffolding-cli@2.1.0

* feat: lerna version and publish

* feat: lerna scriptsh

* fix: don't need to checkout

* fix: turns out you do

* fix: branch name

* fix: remove ref/head

* fix: remove ref/head

* fix: remove refs/heads

* fix: remove refs/heads

* fix: remove refs/heads

* fix: remove refs/heads

* fix: checkout

* Publish

 - @amido-stacks/eslint-config@0.3.0

* docs: lerna pub

* chore: only deploy from master

* fix: source branch variable

* fix: source branch variable

docs/deployment.md, after:

# Templated Pipelines

Whilst there is a full CI/CD process for contributed changes to ensure exisiting functionality doesn't break if you want to ensure your PR passes, please follow the steps in the [cli](./cli.md) docs to create a templated out app with and *-pipeline.yml and point to your own CI/CD tooling.

All changes need to be made inside the `packages/template-cli/templates/build/*`. 

Azure Devops (TFS) ONLY:
  - The generated pipeline yaml is only comprised of steps and jobs templated out from other repo 

### Basic Guide 

<!-- Add more steps. -->

1. See [publishing](./publishing.md) for how to publishing changes to packages


### Build container definitions
All build containers used by the pipelines are stored and managed from `libs/images/*`, shbould you need to change or create an additional one please follow the existing structure and create a folder for your specific use case. 

These are meant to be used for public consumption and should not include any secrets or keys left in the container.

DO NOT use `COPY` or `ADD` commands.

e.g. create a folder called `pip-cypress` and within it include a Dockerfile and a README.
