docs/publishing.md, before:

---
id: publishing
title: Publishing Packages
sidebar_label: Publishing Packages
---

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

## How do I publish?

1. Make changes and commit them to origin/branch
2. Ensure your `git status` is porcelian
3. On your local machine `npm run version`
4. Commit the automatically generated changes
5. Raise a PR to origin/master
6. The CI pipeline will then publish the changes for you

## What registry are we using?

All of our packages are opensource and can be found under the @amidostacks organisation on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/settings/amidostacks/packages).

## Do I need access to the registry to be able to publish?

No, the CI pipeline will publish for you. If you have maintainer access to the Github repo then you can commit your changes with the version bump, and let the pipeline do the rest (if it passes all the tests that is).


## Our Packages

`stacks-webapp-template` is a [monorepo](./monorepo.md), meaning it is divided into independent sub-packages.

These packages can be found in the packages/ directory:

```
packages/
  elint-config/
  template-cli/
```

## Package Registry

All our packages are publically available from `npm`: https://www.npmjs.com/org/amidostacks


## Package Management

We are following in the footsteps of [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) and using [Lerna](https://lernajs.io) which can be installed using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lerna).

Lerna is configured to publish all changes in [packages](../packages) once any changes have passed the pipeline gates as defined in [build/azDevOps/azure](build/azDevOps/azure/). Note that it's then up the consumers of the packages to update their versions as needed.

## Automated Package Publishing

Lerna is embedded as a step in the [monorepo](./monorepo.md) pipeline. Check out the pipeline step [publish-packages-lerna.yml](./build/azDevOps/azure/templates/steps/publish-packages-lerna.yml) for more informatiion on how this is done.

This automates the following process:

1. the version is bumped from the conventional commits `npm run version`
2. `package.json` version is changed
3. the changes are to be merged to master (CHANGELOG.md, version and gitHead, and the commit is tagged as a release in Github)
4. in the pipeline, this triggers lerna to look for difference in package version and the registrry
5. if changes are found the packages are published to the configured registry

### Why do version bumps require manual commit?

Because we think it's up the the deveopers to ensure that they want to bump the version, based on their commit history.

### Why have we automated publishing?

We think it's good practice to test changes before publishing it to our [public npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com/settings/amidostacks/packages). so you know it's free of errors. We only publish from master in the pipeline.

## Versioning

We are versioning as a seperate script in order to support publishing from a CI pipeline, and to automate the creation of changelogs based on the commit history.

From root, run: `npm run version`

### What does `version` do?

1. Identifies packages that have been updated since the previous tagged release.
2. Bumps the version based on the Conventional Commits Specification
3. Updates CHANGELOG.md and updates the package.json if needed

The changes are then ready to be commited to the remote.

### Why do we use `lerna version --conventional-commits`?

>When run with this flag, lerna version will use the Conventional Commits Specification to determine the version bump and generate CHANGELOG.md files. [2]
[2]: https://github.com/lerna/lerna/tree/master/commands/version#--conventional-commits

### Why do we use `lerna publish from-package`?

1. We reduce risk of Git conflicts;
2. The versioning can occur idependently;
3. Lerna will need to commiting the `gitHead` SHA to the package.json of the package;
4. If a publish fails, then it will try again.

## Conventional Commits

We generate our CHANGELOGS.md automagically based on the `git commit`. The commit itself communicates the **WHAT**, whereas commit message communicates the **WHY**.

### What is a commit?

[`git commit`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit) is a git command that is used to record your changes to the local repository.

### Why are we using Conventional Commits?

* Automatically generating CHANGELOGs.
* Automatically determining a semantic version bump (based on the types of commits landed).
* Communicating the nature of changes to teammates, the public, and other stakeholders.
* Triggering publish processes.
* Making it easier for people to contribute to your projects, by allowing them to explore a more structured commit history.

_Source: https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#why-use-conventional-commits_

### How do we enforce Conventional Commits?

We use precommit hooks with [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) and [commitlint](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint).

### What are the commit conventions format?

`type(scope?): subject`

Where:

* [`'type'=`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional#type-enum)
  ```js
  [
    'build',
    'ci',
    'chore',
    'docs',
    'feat',
    'fix',
    'perf',
    'refactor',
    'revert',
    'style',
    'test'
  ];
  ```
* `scope?=` optional, addresses the specific area of change, or feature
* `subject=` why you are making the commit in the first place

Examples:
`chore: to run tests on travis ci`

`fix(server): to send cors headers`

`feat(blog): to add comment section`

## Publishing

From root, run: `npm run publish`

### What does `publish` do?

1. explicitly publish packages where the latest version is not present in the registry (from-package).

*Lerna will never publish packages which are marked as private ("private": true in the package.json).*

### What happens in CI?

We check if the package version is up to date with the registry. If it's a head, then we publish the changes.

### Why do we use `lerna publish from-package`?

> keyword except the list of packages to publish is determined by inspecting each `package.json` and determining if any package version is not present in the registry. Any versions not present in the registry will be published. This is useful when a previous lerna publish failed to publish all packages to the registry. [1]

[1]: https://github.com/lerna/lerna/tree/master/commands/publish#bump-from-package

Commit message:

fix: publishing with lerna (#109)
* docs: lerna lessons

* fix: package change

* chore(release): publish

 - @amidostacks/eslint-config@0.20.9
 - @amidostacks/scaffolding-cli@1.18.3

* fix: no git tag

* chore: remove tag ref

* chore: no tag version with version bump

* docs: versioning docs

* docs: eslint and publishing

docs/publishing.md, after:

---
id: publishing
title: Publishing Packages
sidebar_label: Publishing Packages
---

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

⚠️ IMPORTANT: all packages are versioned and published using [Lerna](https://lernajs.io), as defined by scripts at the root of the repository. Please do not version packages manually in their package directories.

## How do I bump the version on a package and publish?

1. Make changes and commit them to origin/branch
2. Ensure your `git status` is porcelian
3. On your *local* machine at the root of the repo (executing the [version script](../package.json)): `npm run version`
4. Commit the automatically generated changes
5. Raise a PR to origin/master
6. The CI pipeline will then publish the changes for you

## What registry are we using?

All of our packages are opensource and can be found under the @amidostacks organisation on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/settings/amidostacks/packages).

## Do I need access to the registry to be able to publish?

No, the CI pipeline will publish for you. If you have maintainer access to the Github repo then you can commit your changes with the version bump, and let the pipeline do the rest (if it passes all the tests that is).


## Our Packages

`stacks-webapp-template` is a [monorepo](./monorepo.md), meaning it is divided into independent sub-packages.

These packages can be found in the packages/ directory:

```
packages/
  elint-config/
  template-cli/
```

## Package Registry

All our packages are publically available from `npm`: https://www.npmjs.com/org/amidostacks


## Package Management

We are following in the footsteps of [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) and using [Lerna](https://lernajs.io) which can be installed using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lerna).

Lerna is configured to publish all changes in [packages](../packages) once any changes have passed the pipeline gates as defined in [build/azDevOps/azure](build/azDevOps/azure/). Note that it's then up the consumers of the packages to update their versions as needed.

## Automated Package Publishing

Lerna is embedded as a step in the [monorepo](./monorepo.md) pipeline. Check out the pipeline step [publish-packages-lerna.yml](./build/azDevOps/azure/templates/steps/publish-packages-lerna.yml) for more informatiion on how this is done.

This automates the following process:

1. the version is bumped from the conventional commits `npm run version`
2. `package.json` version is changed
3. the changes are to be merged to master (CHANGELOG.md, version in packages)
4. in the pipeline, this triggers lerna to look for difference in package version and the registrry
5. if changes are found the packages are published to the configured registry

### Why do version bumps require manual commit?

Because we think it's up the the deveopers to ensure that they want to bump the version, based on their commit history.

### Why have we automated publishing?

We think it's good practice to test changes before publishing it to our [public npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com/settings/amidostacks/packages). so you know it's free of errors. We only publish from master in the pipeline.

## Versioning

We are versioning as a seperate script in order to support publishing from a CI pipeline, and to automate the creation of changelogs based on the commit history.

From root, run: `npm run version`

### What does `version` do?

1. Identifies packages that have been updated since the previous tagged release.
2. Bumps the version based on the Conventional Commits Specification
3. Updates CHANGELOG.md and updates the package.json if needed

The changes are then ready to be commited to the remote.

### Why do we use `lerna version --conventional-commits`?

>When run with this flag, lerna version will use the Conventional Commits Specification to determine the version bump and generate CHANGELOG.md files. [2]
[2]: https://github.com/lerna/lerna/tree/master/commands/version#--conventional-commits

### Why do we use `lerna publish from-package`?

1. We reduce risk of Git conflicts;
2. The versioning can occur idependently;
3. Lerna will need to commiting the `gitHead` SHA to the package.json of the package;
4. If a publish fails, then it will try again.

### Why do we use `--no-git-tag-version`?

By default, lerna version will commit changes to package.json files and tag the release. Since we are publishing `from-package` and doing so in the pipeline, we would rather suggest creating a seperate Github release task that would run on successful Lerna publishing to the registry.

### Why do we use `--no-push`?

By default, lerna version will push the committed and tagged changes to the configured git remote. We disable this to ensure that the changelog and vrsion bumps are obvious on local, and it's up to the develop to commit them to their working branch.

## Conventional Commits

We generate our CHANGELOGS.md automagically based on the `git commit`. The commit itself communicates the **WHAT**, whereas commit message communicates the **WHY**.

### What is a commit?

[`git commit`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit) is a git command that is used to record your changes to the local repository.

### Why are we using Conventional Commits?

* Automatically generating CHANGELOGs.
* Automatically determining a semantic version bump (based on the types of commits landed).
* Communicating the nature of changes to teammates, the public, and other stakeholders.
* Triggering publish processes.
* Making it easier for people to contribute to your projects, by allowing them to explore a more structured commit history.

_Source: https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#why-use-conventional-commits_

### How do we enforce Conventional Commits?

We use precommit hooks with [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) and [commitlint](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint).

### What are the commit conventions format?

`type(scope?): subject`

Where:

* [`'type'=`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional#type-enum)
  ```js
  [
    'build',
    'ci',
    'chore',
    'docs',
    'feat',
    'fix',
    'perf',
    'refactor',
    'revert',
    'style',
    'test'
  ];
  ```
* `scope?=` optional, addresses the specific area of change, or feature
* `subject=` why you are making the commit in the first place

Examples:
`chore: to run tests on travis ci`

`fix(server): to send cors headers`

`feat(blog): to add comment section`

## Publishing

From root, run: `npm run publish`

### What does `publish` do?

1. explicitly publish packages where the latest version is not present in the registry (from-package).

*Lerna will never publish packages which are marked as private ("private": true in the package.json).*

### What happens in CI?

We check if the package version is up to date with the registry. If it's a head, then we publish the changes.

### Why do we use `lerna publish from-package`?

> keyword except the list of packages to publish is determined by inspecting each `package.json` and determining if any package version is not present in the registry. Any versions not present in the registry will be published. This is useful when a previous lerna publish failed to publish all packages to the registry. [1]

[1]: https://github.com/lerna/lerna/tree/master/commands/publish#bump-from-package

## Lessons learnt with Lerna

We have encountered a lot of issues while using Lerna for versioning and publishing in a pipeline. Namely the following:

1. Lerna expects master to be un protected and able to push to it - https://github.com/lerna/lerna/issues/1957
2. When using `from-package` the GitHead SHA needs to be commited POST publishing to a registry. This requires the publish task in the pipeline to commit this to master.
3. When using `from-package` the Git Tag needs to be commited POST publishing to registry. This requires custom tasks for tagging releases.
4. Lerna cannot version or publish in a detached HEAD state, making pipeline versioning and publishing really hard.
5. It should probably just be done locally...
